## Discussion

The diameter is the fastest and easiest in the field measurement (see Table **YYY**). It is the most convenient parameter for separating the sea urchins in size categories or for measuring individually large amounts of echinoids. The others are suited more for batch evaluation (total biomass for instance). Fresh weight and SIW take more time. Since several individuals can be drought simultaneously for the fresh weight, time spent for each measurement drops to around 40 s, instead of the overall 5 min. Hence, the SIW is the longest measurement because the scale takes a while to stabilize. However, it is both the most accurate and the less stressful measurement, which can be of importance when working on sexually mature individuals that can spawn when handled.

### Reproducibility

The diameter of the test to the ambitus is reproducible when it is done by the same person, while the two other measurements are not dependent on the experimenter. However, succesive measurements of the same individuals exhibited significant variations. Such variations in 4 h intervals can be explained only by slight variations in the volume of the water confined in the echinoid (perivisceral fluid and/or intradigestive fluid; protrusion more or less important of the Aristotle's lantern). This is a drawback that would lower both the accuracy and reproducibility of fresh weight measure in echinoids.

This analysis reveals that the SIW is by far the most reproducible and thus reliable measurement. Its reliability is probably even higher than shown in Table **YYY** where the loss due to broken spines between measurements was not deduced from the overall recorded variation.

### Allometry

Allometric relationships characterize how two measurement change with the size of an animal. Here, we used model I regressions to assess these relationships (see Table **ZZZ**). However, caution is the rule as model I is not verified (the independent variable should be measured without error which is not the case here). A non-biased model II would be more adequate (Ebert 1981, 1994, Laws & Archie 1981, Tessier 1948) but only biased model II are available for such data sets (Sokal & Rohlf 1981, p. 549). Since the explained variance is higher than 98%, the bias remains negligible, whatever the model chosen. Thus, in this case, a model I is to be preferred for prediction purposes with independent regressions for reciprocal relationships (Sokal & Rohlf 1981).

The SIW being a direct *in vivo* measurement of the skeleton weight of the sea urchin, the latter can be calculated by the formula in Table **YYY**. As the soma is composed of ca. 90% of skeleton (in dry weight, Grosjean, unpubl.), it is also a reasonably good in vivo estimation of the somatic dry weight, after applying possibly a correction calculated after the SIW-soma allometric relationship (Table **ZZZ**). As such, it allows to follow most accurately the somatic growth of the sea urchins. In some experiments (Grosjean et al., in prep.), we were able to quantify somatic growth of sea urchins within a 7-days period using the SIW, while it would require at least a 1 or 2 months period to get the same accuracy with test diameter or fresh weight! Caution must be taken, of course, when applying conversions on echinoids in particular physiological state that lead to variations in allometric relationships, such with starved individuals (Ebert 1968, Kaneko et al. 1981).
